At the most recent FOSS4G conference (2019), Minghini, Kotsev, and Lutz presented a study comparing and contrasting the end-user perspective of two spatial data repositories: INSPIRE and OpenStreetMap (OSM). The foremost difference between INSPIRE and OSM is their approach to data collection. INSPIRE is what is called a Spatial Data Infrastructure or SDI, an innovative system first theorized in the 1990s to improve the interoperability of spatial data between different data collection agencies and it can exist at a local, national, or international scales. Before SDI's spatial data remained prerogative only within national mapping agencies. However this new standard has gave way to the increased facility for data-sharing and partnerships between communities through the standardized data set, geoportals, and web catalogues. However, the SDI's method of data collection still remains a top-down approach, where the initiative and execution is spearheaded by national mapping agencies and their methods often outlined by legislation. On the other hand, OpenStreetMap takes advantage of the recent advancements and proliferation in location-enabled devices and free access to satellite data to turn citizens into key players of geospatial data collection. OSM is built on open-source software and with an open-content license. This bottom-up, crowdsourcing approach to SDI is called Volunteered Geographic Information (VGI).

In comparing INSPIRE and OSM - SDI and VGI, we start to see the significant advantages in the crowdsourcing and open-source method of the latter. INSPIRE is a project coordinated by the European Commission and European Environmental Agency. Since its implementing rules are governed by European regulation, its data pertains to very specific domains, a total of around 340 object types. On the other hand, OSM covers the entire globe and has evolved into the most diverse spatial data set, where any verifiable spatial object can be added to its dataset, and the list of objects is agreed upon in a collaborative nature by its users. The difference is again apparent in the data structure, encoding, and accessibility. The use of proprietary data model by INSPIRE called the INSPIRE UML, as well as the general sophistication with which data is stored and organized (using metadata), its geoportal has yet to implement all available data, and some data can only be accessed as-is. The geoportal website shows a giant discrepancy between the amount of metadata and downloadable/viewable data. In other words, there is a significant barrier in accessing the INSPIRE dataset. Conversely, the data model for OSM is simpler, consisting of nodes (lat/long), tags (which are agreed upon by the community) and values.This simplicity facilitates the conversion of its dataset into any available vector format with no loss of data. In addition tags make metadata redundant making the data easier to use. Its export function and API's make OSM's data widely accessible and easy to use. This also means that OSM has a larger ecosystem of opensource, FOSS4G tools for accessing the data. However, it is not to say that OSM and open-source data collecting method always has the upper hand, as there is no regulation of tags and lacks rigorous data specifications. Opensource mapping technology is still up and coming, but OSM's reliability and proliferation shines a light at the future of SDI's.

[Link to the article](https://www.int-arch-photogramm-remote-sens-spatial-inf-sci.net/XLII-4-W14/167/2019/isprs-archives-XLII-4-W14-167-2019.pdf)

[back to home](index.md)
